# CS300-DSA-Analysis-and-Design

Throughout the course, we learned about a few of the different data structures and sorting algorithms that are commonly used within the computer science industry. We learned what each one was and when and how to apply them. For the projects of this course, we applied what we learned by having to analyze and choose which data structure and sorting algorithm would be best suited to solve a problem for a made up university. There problem was they needed a way to create a class schedule for students that takes into account the prerequisites for each class. We were tasked to analyze the runtime efficiencies of each of the data structures that we learned about (vector, hash table, and binary tree) throughout the course and make a decision on which one we wanted to implement within the project. 
  
  When I was aproaching the problem, I first looked at the runtime efficiencies of each structure. When choosing a data structure, it is important to take into account scalability. It is also important to understand each data structures strengths and weaknesses. In making my decision to go with the binary tree, I considered the hash table as I knew it would be the best in terms of scalability. But one of its drawbacks, is that it can be difficult to sort due to its key/value system. Next, I looked at the vector and found that while it would be very easy to sort, it is difficult to add and delete items from the middle of the vector, meaning that as the list of classes grew, it would become less and less efficient. So I settled on the binary tree, mainly because they are inherently sorted and while not quite as fast as a hash table in terms of scalability, it is still within the reasonable range. 

  The work that I did in this course has felt extremely crucial in my ability to make smart decisions in the future. It has given me a deeper insight into everything that needs to be considered when designing a program. Alongside that, it has given me the ability to create programs that are maintainable, readable, adaptable and scalable. While working on the project, it helped me put into practice everything we had learned throughout the course. It let me apply everything I learned and gave me a broader grasp on the inner working of a proper program. I look forward to utilizing what was learned here in my future endeavors. 
